FROM TANG AND BENNET 2010 REVIEW

The analysis of animal movement patterns in ABM raises a challenging but intriguing issue. The empirical study of animal movement has led to a set of quantitative metrics, potentially at different levels (e.g. individual, population, and location; see Figure 6), to enable the analysis of animal movement patterns using statistical approaches (see Tischendorf 1997). Turchin (1998) discussed quantitative metrics for analyzing movement patterns of species. These metrics include angular correlation and net squared displacement based on step lengths and turn angles (individual-level), residence index for capturing the impact of landscape heterogeneity (location-based), and fractal dimension for evaluating the scale-independent characteristics of individual-level movement paths. Besides these, landscape metrics (see Gustafson 1998; Turner et al. 2001) and spatial point pattern analysis (Dale 1999; Diggle 2003) can be used to analyze and compare the spatial patterns of animals during their movement.
	These quantitative metrics not only support the evaluation of simulated animal patterns, but also allow for model calibration and validation using empirical movement data. The choice of metrics depends on how the animal movement paths are represented (e.g. raster- or vector-based), and level of analysis (e.g. individual, population, or location; see Figure 6). Morales et al. (2005) used net squared displacement and histograms of turning angles to analyze the movement paths of simulated herbivore. Tang (2008) applied spatial point pattern analysis (including quadrat analysis and nearest neighborhood distance analysis) to compare the spatial distribution patterns of elk to examine the impact of spatial learning on the migratory performance of elk.