Regardless of how sophisticated our observational model might be, it will always be an approximation to the complexity of the true data generating process. We have to be ever mindful of the limitations of the observational model in the context of any particular analysis.

For example, the observational model might approximate the true data generating process only within a certain regime of behaviors. At the same time the approximations might accurately capture only some behaviors but not others. A given observational model can express the large scale structure of the latent system but make no attempt to incorporate the structure at smaller scales. It might capture statistical relationships between phenomenological parameters but fail to accurately convey the physical dynamics or explicit causal structure of the phenomenon and its interaction with the environment.


Consequently we have to be extremely careful to employ model-based inferences only within the regimes where the approximations are reasonable and sufficient for the decisions that we want to inform. In other words, we have to develop a model that is sophisticated enough for the given application.

Another subtlety with the approximate nature of the observational model is that a given observational model might be a reasonable approximation for _many_ true data generating processes. This is particularly common for observational models that focus on capturing the _emergent_ behaviors of a complex observational process. At sufficiently coarse scales much of the latent structure washes out and only the most coherent of the latent behaviors survive. All true data generating process with similar emergent behavior can then be equally well approximated by the same observational model.

Linear regression, for example, can be interpreted as a model where phenomenological behavior manifests as a deterministic linear relationship between observed variates and covariates which is then convolved through Gaussian fluctuations. This linear relationship, however, can be considered as a first-order approximation to _any_ latent phenomenological behavior. At the same time Gaussian variation well approximates a wide range of environmental and probe behaviors, especially within the context of the first-order behavior. Consequently any true data generating process with the same first-order phenomenological behavior, and emergent environmental and probe behaviors, will be reasonably approximated by the _same_ linear regression model.

**Emergent models cannot discriminate between the true data generating processes they approximate and they cannot express behaviors outside of the scope of the approximation. The meaningful interpretation of a model-based statistical analysis requires not just an explicit observational model but also the scope of the approximations it presumes. In other words, we need to at least conceptually understand the context of the model relative to the true data generating process.**

